As consumption upgrades, app-backed small gyms spawn new business model

A combination of health awareness, lifestyle-related consumption upgrade, innovative use of digital technologies, and high-quality manufacturing is spurring a boom in China's fitness industry.

By the end of 2018, the industry boasted more than 53,000 facilities - gyms big and small, dance-based exercise floors, yoga studios and the like - that shaped forecasts of a 70 billion yuan ($10.4 billion) business by 2020.

Although the 9-percent rise in the number of facilities last year was lower than the 13-percent surge in 2017, what is making market insiders jump up in joy are estimates of 20-percent annual sales growth.

Driven by such bullish sentiment, Xia Jinglong co-founded Supermonkey, a Shenzhen-headquartered gym that has a digital footprint.

He recently told technology website Geekpark that the online dimension will become an industry standard in the future.

Technology, he said, has obviated the need for front-desk people and sales people, and digitalized all the transactions and browsing activities. Mining app-user data and using proprietary algorithms, precious feedback can be funneled to fitness instructors, and classes arranged automatically for gym members.

Internet-based gyms usually take smaller floor area. This makes it easier to change locations. Like convenience stores, they are scattered across cities, making them more accessible for the fitness crowd than traditional gyms, which are like supermarkets. The two types of gyms co-exist in the market, and complement each other. This will be a future trend, Xia said.

Wang Ke, a 22-year-old college student in Beijing, will probably agree. She loves to work out at LeFit, a multi-discipline fitness chain with about 500 relatively smaller facilities across China. The LeFit app enables its users to book workout sessions anywhere anytime as per their convenience and preference.

On a late Friday evening earlier this month, Wang headed out for a yoga class she had booked online.

"Before going to a gym, I browse LeFit's website or app. It offers various courses - Pilates, boxing, trampoline, indoor cycle, and dancing.

"Each branch offers different classes at specific times. I pick my preferred class at a suitable time, and then go to that branch for the class. The gyms are open 24/7, and the membership card is valid countrywide."